# Solis-Binary-Linguistics
There is a need to develop a software system to manage what is currently a manual TA and Grader application process. The existing process involves the submittal of hard copy applications and supporting documents that are maintained in physical folders. Naturally this creates a repository of data that is considerably more difficult to access, modify, and track than if it resided in an online system. In an effort to better track applicants, applicant data is currently stored in spreadsheets, but multiple spreadsheets can exist at time among multiple administrators, thus it has become difficult to track application status and maintain continuity across all spreadsheets. This problem has led to increased man hours and exhausting work due to multiple revisions of TA and Grader schedules, resulting largely from unknown changes in application status.

The web application we will develop will serve as a workflow management tool that will provide the sponsor and other stakeholders with a new application process that is efficient, timely, and trackable, allowing all stakeholders access to current information. The system will provide the benefit of a quicker hiring process for TAs and Graders, as well as quicker assignment of TAs and Graders to specific university courses. It will also provide better visibility of application status, thus allowing administrators, faculty, and the Program Chair to know where applicants are in the process, if an applicant is missing any needed information, or if an applicant is no longer interested in employment. Ultimately, the system will expedite the communication of changes to all stakeholders, and provide a single data record that is up to date.

The system will be designed to electronically handle the lifecycle of a TA or Grader application. This includes an electronic application form and support of soft copy attachments. From the time an application is created, to when it is completed and a determination of applicant suitability is made, the system will indicate the state of the application and flag any missing information. A set of integrated tools will also be offered to the Program Chair that will assist in filtering applications and searching for applicant data. Security protocol will also be implemented to secure transmission and access to data.